Hi there, welcome to
this video where we
are going to learn
about using privacy
settings in digital
environments.
The goal of the
presentation is to
help you to know what
privacy settings are
and how you can make
mindful choices when
you use social media
applications.
In the video, firstly,
we will look at what
social media is.
Following this,
we will explore what
privacy settings are
on social media apps.
Finally, we will
consider how we can
make mindful choices
about our privacy settings.
People in today's
world spend a lot of time
using digital
devices. Computers,
smartphones and
tablets are examples
of digital devices
that make up the
digital environment
around us.
Digital devices can
help us through social media
applications to
connect with family
and friends.
For example, we send
messages and photos
using messaging apps.
Which social media
applications do you
or your family use?
Privacy settings can
be found on every
social media
application and are
designed to give
users the ability to
decide who can see
their online profile,
what content people
can see on their
profile and if people
have the ability to
contact them, for
example, call them
or send an instant message.
Different social media
platforms have different
privacy settings, therefore
it is important to be
mindful when you sign
up to a new
application
and double check that
the privacy settings are
going to enable you
to have control over
who is able to see
your online content
or not. Most
applications allow
you to have
a publicly open profile
where everyone using
the platform can see
your personal information.
For example, a personal
photo of you, your status
and other information about you
such as age, gender,
where you go to
school. Whilst it is
nice to share photos
and your status with
family and friends,
consider whether you
want all users of the
social media platform
to see these things.
Most applications
track the internet
address or position
to reveal your
location, sometimes
showing the exact
address. Whilst it
might be a good idea
to share your
location with family
members, it is not
recommended to reveal
it to everyone using
the social media
platform. You might
also want to consider
whether this is
something you need to
share with some
of your friends.
For example, maybe you
do not want all your
friends to see that you have
an appointment with
a doctor. We see that
influencers on social
media post to the
whole world to gain
followers, exchanging
their personal privacy
for the money gain.
However, we
should avoid posting
everything to the
whole world and
carefully consider
our privacy settings
when using social
media applications.
Here are some
examples of questions
you might ask
yourself when setting
up a new application.
Do I want my teachers
at school to see
videos I post with my
friends? Do I want to
be messaged
by anybody using the
social media platform
or only people who
are in my phone
contact list? Do I
want complete
strangers to see my
summer holiday photos?
Do I want anybody
to see where I am
located on the map
anytime? Be mindful.
Who do you want to
give access to your
online content? You
can think about this
and maybe discuss it
with a parent before
checking the privacy
settings of any
applications that you
have. One thing to
consider is that even
if you have control
over your own privacy
settings, others that
you share content
with might not have
control over their
privacy settings.
This can lead to
content about you
being shared more
widely via someone
else's social media
applications.
Be mindful. Check your
own privacy settings
and inform others of
your right to choose
what content about
you is shared via
their online platforms.
So in this
short video we learnt
that: We are part of
the digital
environment when we
are using social
media applications.
Privacy settings are
designed to give
users the ability to
decide who can see
their online profile,
what content people
can see on their
profile, and if
people have the
ability to contact
them or not. We can
be mindful and make
good choices about
these privacy
settings by asking
ourselves, who do I
want to give access
to my online content?
Thank you for watching!
To learn more about
digital environments and
digital citizenship,
watch other videos in out series.